---
layout: default
mathjax: true
title:  "Exam guidelines"
date:   2020-05-16 09:33:19 +0100
categories: exam
---




## Exam Guidelines


The oral exam takes place on the 2nd of June.


The examination lasts approximately 25 minutes. Your goal is to
convince the examiners and external examiner ("censor" in Danish) that
you have a thorough understanding of the contents of the course.

You will be asked questions by the exmainers in a proportion of about
3:1 between the approximation algorithms part and the projects
including the general aspects of heuristics. Aim for a reasonably high
pace and focus on the most interesting material related to the
questions you get. You are not supposed to use note material,
textbooks, transparencies, etc.


We will start by asking relatively general and trivial questions. Then
we will increase the level of difficulty of the questions adapting
them to your ongoing performance. Hence, you should not panic for a
difficult question as that might indicate that you are on the path to
a good grade. In any case, you should try to answer concisely and to
the point. To make the presentation of your answer precise it may be a
good idea to use handwritten mathematical symbols and drawings, but
generally avoid spending time writing full sentences, which can
instead be expressed orally.


## Details about the tools for the online setting

We will use **Zoom**. You will be given an address in due time.  We
will follow a schedule that will be communicated a few days before the
exam and that will be updated online in case of delays. You will have
to log into a meeting room 5 minutes before your time and you will be
admitted from a waiting room when your time arrives. After the
examination the examiners will convene in a breakout room to discuss
the grade while you will be waiting in the main room.

We will follow the [official SDU
guidelines](https://mitsdu.dk/en/vejledning/studieregler/eksamen/mundtlig_proeve).

It is student's responsability to have a working setup by the time of
the exam and to have gained experience with the syestem.

You must have the video active and the main camera should have focus
on your face, that must always be visible online at anytime during the
examination. You might need to produce and show drawing and
handwriting. For this, you should consider the solutions listed below:




* Using a tablet or touch screen or digital pen

  * sharing in zoom a tablet or a touch screen.

  * sharing in zoom [Explain
    Everything](https://whiteboard.explaineverything.com/) together
    with any marker (eg, digital pen).



* Using your smartphone

  * Using the app **Zoom** installed in your Smartphone. Log in the
    zoom room of the conference, use the camera of the smartphone to
    cast the handwriting. Make sure the battery of the mobile phone is
    fully charged before the exam.

  * Using the app: **IP Webcam** installed in your Smartphone. Start
    the App and press "Start server" (the last option in the main
    menu). When the camera starts you see an IP address, type that
    address in the browser of your computer. Share the screen of your
    computer via, eg, Zoom, thus you can share slides, yourself and
    your handwriting at once. Be creative in placing your smartphone
    in such a way that the camera can see your writings. It is
    possible to mirror, flip, pan or rotate the image from the
    browser: select "Advanced settings" and then "Orientation" or
    "Mirror and Flip".




